sysbox-in-docker/README.md, before:

# Sysbox-In-Docker

As its name implies, Sysbox-In-Docker aims to provide a containerized environment
where to execute the Sysbox runtime.

The goal is to offer a simple and non-invasive environment where users can quickly
interact with the Sysbox runtime. Note that, for the general use-case, Sysbox is
expected to operate in a regular (non-containerized) environment (i.e., host
installation).

## Requirements

There are a few requirements that must be satisfied for Sysbox to properly operate
in a containerized environment:

* Supported Distros: As it's the case for the regular host-based installation,
Sysbox is currently only supported in the distributions shown in this
[doc](../docs/distro-compat.md).

* Root-privileges: As a container runtime, Sysbox requires root privileges to
operate. As a result, Sysbox-In-Docker container must be launched in "privileged"
mode.

    **Note**: Within the privileged container, inner containers launched with Docker +
    Sysbox will be strongly isolated from the host by Sysbox (e.g., via the Linux
    user-namespace).

* Required bind-mounts:

    - "/var/lib/docker"

    - "/var/lib/sysbox"

    - "/lib/modules/<kernel>"

    - "/usr/src/linux-headers-<kernel>"


## Execution

Sysbox-In-Docker environment can be created in three simple steps:

1) Pick the Linux distribution on which to run Sysbox by choosing one of the
Makefile targets displayed below.

    ```
    $ make sysbox-in-docker
    ...
    Usage:
    make sysbox-in-docker <distro-release>

    help                       Show supported docker images
    centos-8                   Build CentOS-8 docker image
    debian-buster              Build Debian-Buster docker image
    debian-bullseye            Build Debian-Bullseye docker image
    fedora-31                  Build Fedora-31 docker image
    fedora-32                  Build Fedora-32 docker image
    ubuntu-bionic              Build Ubuntu-Bionic docker image
    ubuntu-focal               Build Ubuntu-Focal docker image
    $
    ```

2) Build the Sysbox-In-Docker image by executing the chosen target. Notice that
the precise instruction to utlize to launch the Sysbox-In-Docker container will
be displayed as part of this output.

    ```
    $ make sysbox-in-docker ubuntu-bionic
    ...
    *** Launch container with the following instruction ***

    docker run -it --privileged --rm --hostname sysbox-in-docker --name sysbox-in-docker -v /var/tmp/sysbox-var-lib-docker:/var/lib/docker -v /var/tmp/sysbox-var-lib-sysbox:/var/lib/sysbox -v /lib/modules/5.4.0-48-generic:/lib/modules/5.4.0-48-generic:ro -v /usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48-generic:/usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48-generic:ro -v /usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48:/usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48:ro nestybox/sysbox-in-docker:ubuntu-bionic

    make: Nothing to be done for 'ubuntu-bionic'.
    $
    ```

3) Create a Sysbox-In-Docker container by making use of the instruction obtained
in the previous step:

    ```
    $ docker run -it --privileged --rm --hostname sysbox-in-docker --name sysbox-in-docker -v /var/tmp/sysbox-var-lib-docker:/var/lib/docker -v /var/tmp/sysbox-var-lib-sysbox:/var/lib/sysbox -v /lib/modules/5.4.0-48-generic:/lib/modules/5.4.0-48-generic:ro -v /usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48-generic:/usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48-generic:ro -v /usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48:/usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48:ro nestybox/sysbox-in-docker:ubuntu-bionic
    ...
    ```

    In a separate terminal do ...

    ```
   $ docker exec -it sysbox-in-docker bash
   #
    ```

Commit message:

Addressing review comments [skip ci]
Signed-off-by: Rodny Molina <rmolina@nestybox.com>

sysbox-in-docker/README.md, after:

# Sysbox-In-Docker

As its name implies, Sysbox-In-Docker aims to provide a containerized environment
where to execute the Sysbox runtime.

The goal is to offer a simple and non-invasive environment where users can quickly
interact with the Sysbox runtime. Note that, for the general use-case, Sysbox is
expected to operate in a regular (non-containerized) environment (i.e., host
installation).

## Requirements

There are a few requirements that must be satisfied for Sysbox to properly operate
in a containerized environment:

* Supported Distros: As it's the case for the regular host-based installation,
Sysbox is currently only supported in the distributions shown in this
[doc](../docs/distro-compat.md).

* Root-privileges: As a container runtime, Sysbox requires root privileges to
operate. As a result, the Sysbox-In-Docker container must be launched in
"privileged" mode.

    **Note**: Within the privileged container, inner containers launched with Docker +
    Sysbox will be strongly isolated from the host by Sysbox (e.g., via the Linux
    user-namespace).

* Also, in order for the Sysbox-In-Docker container to operate properly, the
following host bind-mounts are required:

    - "/var/lib/docker"

    - "/var/lib/sysbox"

    - "/lib/modules/<kernel>"

    - "/usr/src/linux-headers-<kernel>"


## Execution

The Sysbox-In-Docker environment can be created in a few simple steps:

1) Pick the Linux distribution on which to run Sysbox by choosing one of the
Makefile targets displayed below. This instruction must be executed from the
'sysbox' repository folder, and not from within the 'sysbox-in-docker' one.

    ```
    $ make sysbox-in-docker
    ...
    Usage:
    make sysbox-in-docker <distro-release>

    help                       Show supported docker images
    centos-8                   Build CentOS-8 docker image
    debian-buster              Build Debian-Buster docker image
    debian-bullseye            Build Debian-Bullseye docker image
    fedora-31                  Build Fedora-31 docker image
    fedora-32                  Build Fedora-32 docker image
    ubuntu-bionic              Build Ubuntu-Bionic docker image
    ubuntu-focal               Build Ubuntu-Focal docker image
    $
    ```

2) Build the Sysbox-In-Docker image by executing the chosen target. Notice that
a sample instruction to launch the Sysbox-In-Docker container will be displayed
as part of this output.

    ```
    $ make sysbox-in-docker ubuntu-bionic
    ...
    *** Launch container with the following instruction ***

    docker run -it --privileged --rm --hostname sysbox-in-docker --name sysbox-in-docker -v /var/tmp/sysbox-var-lib-docker:/var/lib/docker -v /var/tmp/sysbox-var-lib-sysbox:/var/lib/sysbox -v /lib/modules/5.4.0-48-generic:/lib/modules/5.4.0-48-generic:ro -v /usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48-generic:/usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48-generic:ro -v /usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48:/usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48:ro nestybox/sysbox-in-docker:ubuntu-bionic

    make: Nothing to be done for 'ubuntu-bionic'.
    $
    ```

3) Create a Sysbox-In-Docker container by making use of the instruction obtained
in the previous step:

    ```
    $ docker run -it --privileged --rm --hostname sysbox-in-docker --name sysbox-in-docker -v /var/tmp/sysbox-var-lib-docker:/var/lib/docker -v /var/tmp/sysbox-var-lib-sysbox:/var/lib/sysbox -v /lib/modules/5.4.0-48-generic:/lib/modules/5.4.0-48-generic:ro -v /usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48-generic:/usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48-generic:ro -v /usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48:/usr/src/linux-headers-5.4.0-48:ro nestybox/sysbox-in-docker:ubuntu-bionic
    ...
    ```

    In a separate terminal do ...

    ```
   $ docker exec -it sysbox-in-docker bash
   #
    ```

4) Once inside the Sysbox-In-Docker container, you should see Docker and Sysbox
running:

    ```
    ps -fu root | egrep "sysbox|docker"
    ```

    And you should be able to launch containers with Docker + Sysbox as usual:

    ```
    # docker run  --runtime=sysbox-runc -it --rm nestybox/ubuntu-focal-systemd-docker
    ```

    Keep in mind that the containers launched by Sysbox are strongly isolated via
    the Linux user namespace, and are capable of running not just microservices,
    but also low-level system software such as systemd, Docker, K8s, and more.

    Refer to the Sysbox [quickstart](../docs/quickstart/README.md) guide
    for more examples on how to use Sysbox.
