docs/user-guide/install.md, before:

# Sysbox User Guide: Installation

## Contents

-   [Host Requirements](#host-requirements)
-   [Installing Sysbox](#installing-sysbox)
-   [Uninstalling Sysbox](#uninstalling-sysbox)
-   [Installing Sysbox w/o Docker restart](#Installing-Sysbox-without-Docker-restart)
-   [Docker Installation](#docker-installation)

## Host Requirements

The Linux host on which Sysbox runs must meet the following requirements:

1) It must have one of the [supported Linux distros](../distro-compat.md).

2) Systemd must be the system's process-manager (the default in the supported distros).

3) Docker must be installed natively (i.e., **not** with the Docker snap package).

-   See [below](#docker-installation) if you have a Docker snap installation and
    need to change it to a native installation.

## Installing Sysbox

**NOTE**: if you have a prior version of Sysbox already installed, please [uninstall it](#uninstalling-sysbox) first and then follow the installation instructions below.

1) Download the latest Sysbox package from the [release](https://github.com/nestybox/sysbox/releases) page.

2) Verify that the checksum of the downloaded file fully matches the expected/published one.
   For example:

```console
$ sha256sum sysbox_0.2.1-0.ubuntu-focal_amd64.deb
126e4963755cdca440579d81409b3f4a6d6ef4c6c2d4cf435052a13468e2c250  sysbox_0.2.1-0.ubuntu-focal_amd64.deb
```

3) Stop and eliminate all running Docker containers. Refer to the
[Installing Sysbox w/o Docker restart](#Installing-Sysbox-without-Docker-restart) section
further below for information on how to avoid impacting existing containers.

```
$ docker rm $(docker ps -a -q) -f
```

... if an error is returned, it simply indicates that no existing containers were found.

4) Install the Sysbox package and follow the installer instructions:

```console
$ sudo apt-get install ./sysbox_0.2.1-0.ubuntu-focal_amd64.deb -y
```

5) Verify that Sysbox's Systemd units have been properly installed, and
   associated daemons are properly running:

```console
$ systemctl list-units -t service --all | grep sysbox
sysbox-fs.service                   loaded    active   running sysbox-fs component
sysbox-mgr.service                  loaded    active   running sysbox-mgr component
sysbox.service                     loaded    active   exited  Sysbox General Service
```

Note: the sysbox.service is ephemeral (it exits once it launches the other sysbox services; that's why
you see `sysbox.service   loaded  active  exited` above).

After you've installed Sysbox, you can now use it to deploy containers that can
run systemd, Docker, and Kubernetes inside of them seamlessly. See the
[Quickstart Guide](../quickstart/README.md) for examples.

If you are curious on what the other Sysbox services are, refer to the [design section](design.md).

If you hit problems during installation, see the [Troubleshooting doc](troubleshoot.md).

### Docker Runtime Configuration

During installation, the Sysbox installer will reconfigure the Docker daemon such
that it detects the Sysbox runtime. It does this by adding the following
configuration to `/etc/docker/daemon.json` and sending a signal (SIGHUP) to Docker:

```json
{
   "runtimes": {
      "sysbox-runc": {
         "path": "/usr/local/sbin/sysbox-runc"
      }
   }
}
```

If all is well, Docker will recognize the Sysbox runtime:

```console
$ docker info | grep -i runtime
WARNING: No swap limit support
 Runtimes: runc sysbox-runc
  Default Runtime: runc
```

### Docker Userns-Remap

During installation, the Sysbox installer will also check if Docker needs to be placed
in [userns-remap mode](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/userns-remap/) or not.

The installer uses the following logic:

-   If the kernel carries a module called `shiftfs`, then Docker does not need to be
    placed in userns-remap mode.

    -   This is normally the case for the Ubuntu desktop and server editions.

-   Otherwise, Docker does need to be placed in userns-remap mode.

    -   This is likely the case for some Ubuntu cloud editions.

If Docker needs to be placed in userns-remap, the Sysbox installer will check if
Docker is already in this mode (by looking for `userns-remap` in
`/etc/docker/daemon.json` and `userns` entry in `docker info` output). If so, no further
action is required.

Otherwise, the Sysbox installer will ask the user for permission to transition Docker
into `userns-remap` mode. If user responds affirmatively, Sysbox installer will make
the required changes (below) and restart Docker automatically. Alternatively, the user
will need to make these changes manually and restart Docker service afterwards (e.g.,
`systemctl restart docker`)

```console
{
   "userns-remap": "sysbox",
}
```

When Docker is placed in userns-remap mode, there are a couple of caveats to
keep in mind:

-   Configuring Docker this way places a few functional limitations on regular
    Docker containers (those launched with Docker's default `runc`), as described
    in this [Docker document](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/userns-remap).

-   System container isolation, while strong, is reduced compared to using
    `shiftfs`. That's because userns-remap causes Docker to put Sysbox into
    "Directed Userns ID Mapping" mode. See [here](security.md#user-namespace-id-mapping)
    for more info on this.

## Uninstalling Sysbox

Prior to uninstalling Sysbox, make sure all system containers are removed.
There is a simple shell script to do this [here](../../scr/rm_all_syscont).

1) Uninstall Sysbox binaries plus all the associated configuration and Systemd
files:

```console
$ sudo apt-get purge sysbox -y
```

2) Remove the `sysbox` user from the system:

```console
$ sudo userdel sysbox
```

## Installing Sysbox without Docker restart

To simplify the Sysbox installation process, we explicitly ask the user to stop and remove
the existing containers. This may not be a feasible option in production scenarios though.
This section tackles this problem by enumerating the docker configuration elements that can
be pre-configured, to allow Sysbox installation to succeed without impacting the existing
containers.

During Sysbox installation, the installer adds the following attributes into Docker's
configuration file if these are not already present. With the exception of the `runtime`
attribute, all others require a Docker process restart for changes to be digested by the
Docker engine.

* `runtime` -- sysbox-runc must be added as a new runtime.
* `bip` -- explicitly sets docker's interface (docker0) network IP address.
* `default-address-pools` -- explicitly defines the subnets to be utilized by Docker
for custom-networks purposes.
* `userns-remap` -- activates 'userns-remap' mode (only required in scenarios without
'shiftfs' module, see [Docker Userns-Remap](#Docker-Userns-Remap) section above).

To prevent Sysbox installer from restarting Docker daemon during the installation process,
the Docker engine must be already aware of these required attributes, and for this to
happen, Docker configuration files such as the following ones should be in placed:

* "shiftfs" scenario

```
cat /etc/docker/daemon.json
{
    "bip": "172.24.0.1/16",
    "default-address-pools": [
        {
            "base": "172.31.0.0/16",
            "size": 24
        }
    ]
}
```

* "userns-remap" scenario

```
cat /etc/docker/daemon.json
{
    "userns-remap": "sysbox",
    "bip": "172.24.0.1/16",
    "default-address-pools": [
        {
            "base": "172.31.0.0/16",
            "size": 24
        }
    ]
}
```

Notice that it is up to the user to decide which specific `bip` or `default-address-pools`
values/ranges are pre-configured, and the same applies to the `userns-remap` entry.
Sysbox will not restart Docker as long as there's one instance of these must-have attributes
in Docker's `/etc/docker/daemon.json` configuration file.


## Docker Installation

Ubuntu offers two methods for installing Docker:

1) Via `apt get` (aka native installation)

2) Via `snap install` (aka snappy installation)

In recent versions of Ubuntu, (2) is the default approach. For example, while installing
Ubuntu Focal on a VM, the installer will ask if you want to install Docker. If you answer
"yes", it will use the snappy installation method.

You can tell if Docker is installed via a snap by doing:

```console
$ which docker
/snap/bin/docker
```

Unfortunately, Sysbox **does not currently support** working with Docker when the latter is
installed via a snap package. We are working on resolving this.

In the meantime, you **must install Docker natively** (method (1) above).

These are the steps to do so:

1) If Docker is installed via a snap, remove the snap:

```console
$ sudo snap remove docker
docker removed
```

2) Install Docker natively.

Follow the instructions in this [Docker doc](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/).

3) Confirm Docker is installed natively:

```console
$ which docker
/usr/bin/docker
```

4) Make sure you are in the `docker` group:

```console
$ sudo usermod -a -G docker $(whoami)
```

You may need to log-out and log-in for the group setting to take effect.

If you are not in the `docker` group (or have no sudo privileges), you'll see an error such as:

```console
$ docker run -it alpine
Got permission denied while trying to connect to the Docker daemon socket at unix:///var/run/docker.sock: ... connect: permission denied
```

5) Verify Docker works:

```console
$ docker run -it alpine
Unable to find image 'alpine:latest' locally
latest: Pulling from library/alpine
df20fa9351a1: Pull complete
Digest: sha256:185518070891758909c9f839cf4ca393ee977ac378609f700f60a771a2dfe321
Status: Downloaded newer image for alpine:latest
/ #
```

At this point you have Docker working, and can now [install Sysbox](#installing-sysbox).

If you want to revert back to the Docker snap, the steps are below, but keep in
mind that Sysbox **won't work**.

1) Uninstall the native Docker

See [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/#uninstall-old-versions).

2) Re-install the Docker snap:

```console
$ sudo snap install docker
```

Commit message:

Update docs to reflect latest expansion in Sysbox's supported distros [skip ci] (#119)
Update docs to reflect latest expansion in Sysbox's supported distros

Signed-off-by: Rodny Molina <rmolina@nestybox.com>

docs/user-guide/install.md, after:

# Sysbox User Guide: Installation

## Contents

-   [Host Requirements](#host-requirements)
-   [Installing Sysbox](#installing-sysbox)
-   [Uninstalling Sysbox](#uninstalling-sysbox)
-   [Installing Sysbox w/o Docker restart](#Installing-Sysbox-without-Docker-restart)
-   [Docker Installation](#docker-installation)

## Host Requirements

The Linux host on which Sysbox runs must meet the following requirements:

1) It must have one of the [supported Linux distros](../distro-compat.md).

2) Systemd must be the system's process-manager (the default in the supported distros).

3) Docker must be installed natively (i.e., **not** with the Docker snap package).

-   See [below](#docker-installation) if you have a Docker snap installation and
    need to change it to a native installation.

## Installing Sysbox

**NOTE**: if you have a prior version of Sysbox already installed, please [uninstall it](#uninstalling-sysbox) first and then follow the installation instructions below.

1) Download the latest Sysbox package from the [release](https://github.com/nestybox/sysbox/releases) page.

2) Verify that the checksum of the downloaded file fully matches the expected/published one.
   For example:

```console
$ sha256sum sysbox_0.2.1-0.ubuntu-focal_amd64.deb
126e4963755cdca440579d81409b3f4a6d6ef4c6c2d4cf435052a13468e2c250  sysbox_0.2.1-0.ubuntu-focal_amd64.deb
```

3) Stop and eliminate all running Docker containers. Refer to the
[Installing Sysbox w/o Docker restart](#Installing-Sysbox-without-Docker-restart) section
further below for information on how to avoid impacting existing containers.

```
$ docker rm $(docker ps -a -q) -f
```

... if an error is returned, it simply indicates that no existing containers were found.

4) Install the Sysbox package and follow the installer instructions:

```console
$ sudo apt-get install ./sysbox_0.2.1-0.ubuntu-focal_amd64.deb -y
```

5) Verify that Sysbox's Systemd units have been properly installed, and
   associated daemons are properly running:

```console
$ systemctl list-units -t service --all | grep sysbox
sysbox-fs.service                   loaded    active   running sysbox-fs component
sysbox-mgr.service                  loaded    active   running sysbox-mgr component
sysbox.service                     loaded    active   exited  Sysbox General Service
```

Note: the sysbox.service is ephemeral (it exits once it launches the other sysbox services; that's why
you see `sysbox.service   loaded  active  exited` above).

After you've installed Sysbox, you can now use it to deploy containers that can
run systemd, Docker, and Kubernetes inside of them seamlessly. See the
[Quickstart Guide](../quickstart/README.md) for examples.

If you are curious on what the other Sysbox services are, refer to the [design section](design.md).

If you hit problems during installation, see the [Troubleshooting doc](troubleshoot.md).

### Docker Runtime Configuration

During installation, the Sysbox installer will reconfigure the Docker daemon such
that it detects the Sysbox runtime. It does this by adding the following
configuration to `/etc/docker/daemon.json` and sending a signal (SIGHUP) to Docker:

```json
{
   "runtimes": {
      "sysbox-runc": {
         "path": "/usr/local/sbin/sysbox-runc"
      }
   }
}
```

If all is well, Docker will recognize the Sysbox runtime:

```console
$ docker info | grep -i runtime
WARNING: No swap limit support
 Runtimes: runc sysbox-runc
  Default Runtime: runc
```

### Docker Userns-Remap

During installation, the Sysbox installer will also check if Docker needs to be placed
in [userns-remap mode](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/userns-remap/) or not.

The installer uses the following logic:

-   If the kernel carries a module called `shiftfs`, then Docker does not need to be
    placed in userns-remap mode.

    -   This is normally the case for the Ubuntu desktop and server editions.

-   Otherwise, Docker does need to be placed in userns-remap mode.

    -   This is likely the case for some Ubuntu cloud editions and for all the
    other [supported distributions](../distro-compat.md).

If Docker needs to be placed in userns-remap, the Sysbox installer will check if
Docker is already in this mode (by looking for `userns-remap` in
`/etc/docker/daemon.json` and `userns` entry in `docker info` output). If so, no further
action is required.

Otherwise, the Sysbox installer will ask the user for permission to transition Docker
into `userns-remap` mode. If user responds affirmatively, Sysbox installer will make
the required changes (below) and restart Docker automatically. Alternatively, the user
will need to make these changes manually and restart Docker service afterwards (e.g.,
`systemctl restart docker`)

```console
{
   "userns-remap": "sysbox",
}
```

When Docker is placed in userns-remap mode, there are a couple of caveats to
keep in mind:

-   Configuring Docker this way places a few functional limitations on regular
    Docker containers (those launched with Docker's default `runc`), as described
    in this [Docker document](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/userns-remap).

-   System container isolation, while strong, is reduced compared to using
    `shiftfs`. That's because userns-remap causes Docker to put Sysbox into
    "Directed Userns ID Mapping" mode. See [here](security.md#user-namespace-id-mapping)
    for more info on this.

## Uninstalling Sysbox

Prior to uninstalling Sysbox, make sure all system containers are removed.
There is a simple shell script to do this [here](../../scr/rm_all_syscont).

1) Uninstall Sysbox binaries plus all the associated configuration and Systemd
files:

```console
$ sudo apt-get purge sysbox -y
```

2) Remove the `sysbox` user from the system:

```console
$ sudo userdel sysbox
```

## Installing Sysbox without Docker restart

To simplify the Sysbox installation process, we explicitly ask the user to stop and remove
the existing containers. This may not be a feasible option in production scenarios though.
This section tackles this problem by enumerating the docker configuration elements that can
be pre-configured, to allow Sysbox installation to succeed without impacting the existing
containers.

During Sysbox installation, the installer adds the following attributes into Docker's
configuration file if these are not already present. With the exception of the `runtime`
attribute, all others require a Docker process restart for changes to be digested by the
Docker engine.

* `runtime` -- sysbox-runc must be added as a new runtime.
* `bip` -- explicitly sets docker's interface (docker0) network IP address.
* `default-address-pools` -- explicitly defines the subnets to be utilized by Docker
for custom-networks purposes.
* `userns-remap` -- activates 'userns-remap' mode (only required in scenarios without
'shiftfs' module, see [Docker Userns-Remap](#Docker-Userns-Remap) section above).

To prevent Sysbox installer from restarting Docker daemon during the installation process,
the Docker engine must be already aware of these required attributes, and for this to
happen, Docker configuration files such as the following ones should be in placed:

* "shiftfs" scenario

```
cat /etc/docker/daemon.json
{
    "bip": "172.24.0.1/16",
    "default-address-pools": [
        {
            "base": "172.31.0.0/16",
            "size": 24
        }
    ]
}
```

* "userns-remap" scenario

```
cat /etc/docker/daemon.json
{
    "userns-remap": "sysbox",
    "bip": "172.24.0.1/16",
    "default-address-pools": [
        {
            "base": "172.31.0.0/16",
            "size": 24
        }
    ]
}
```

Notice that it is up to the user to decide which specific `bip` or `default-address-pools`
values/ranges are pre-configured, and the same applies to the `userns-remap` entry.
Sysbox will not restart Docker as long as there's one instance of these must-have attributes
in Docker's `/etc/docker/daemon.json` configuration file.


## Docker Installation

Ubuntu offers two methods for installing Docker:

1) Via `apt get` (aka native installation)

2) Via `snap install` (aka snappy installation)

In recent versions of Ubuntu, (2) is the default approach. For example, while installing
Ubuntu Focal on a VM, the installer will ask if you want to install Docker. If you answer
"yes", it will use the snappy installation method.

You can tell if Docker is installed via a snap by doing:

```console
$ which docker
/snap/bin/docker
```

Unfortunately, Sysbox **does not currently support** working with Docker when the latter is
installed via a snap package. We are working on resolving this.

In the meantime, you **must install Docker natively** (method (1) above).

These are the steps to do so:

1) If Docker is installed via a snap, remove the snap:

```console
$ sudo snap remove docker
docker removed
```

2) Install Docker natively.

Follow the instructions in this [Docker doc](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/).

3) Confirm Docker is installed natively:

```console
$ which docker
/usr/bin/docker
```

4) Make sure you are in the `docker` group:

```console
$ sudo usermod -a -G docker $(whoami)
```

You may need to log-out and log-in for the group setting to take effect.

If you are not in the `docker` group (or have no sudo privileges), you'll see an error such as:

```console
$ docker run -it alpine
Got permission denied while trying to connect to the Docker daemon socket at unix:///var/run/docker.sock: ... connect: permission denied
```

5) Verify Docker works:

```console
$ docker run -it alpine
Unable to find image 'alpine:latest' locally
latest: Pulling from library/alpine
df20fa9351a1: Pull complete
Digest: sha256:185518070891758909c9f839cf4ca393ee977ac378609f700f60a771a2dfe321
Status: Downloaded newer image for alpine:latest
/ #
```

At this point you have Docker working, and can now [install Sysbox](#installing-sysbox).

If you want to revert back to the Docker snap, the steps are below, but keep in
mind that Sysbox **won't work**.

1) Uninstall the native Docker

See [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/#uninstall-old-versions).

2) Re-install the Docker snap:

```console
$ sudo snap install docker
```
